.TH AS 1 
.SH NAME
\*pas, ljas \- common assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR \*pas
.if '\*p'm32' .BR \-v type
.RB "[" \-o " objfile]"
.if '\*p'x86' .RB \-x
.if '\*p'3b' .RB "[" \-Q "]"
.RB "[" \-n "]"
.RB "[" \-m "]"
.RB "[" \-R "]"
.RB "[" \-V "]"
filename
.br
.BR ljas
.RB "[" \-o " objfile]"
.RB "[" \-n "]"
.RB "[" \-m "]"
.RB "[" \-R "]"
.RB "[" \-V "]"
filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I \*pas
command
assembles the named file.
The following flags may be specified in any order.
.TP \w'\fB\-o\fP\ \fIobjfile\fP\ \ 'u
.BI \-o " objfile"
Put the output of assembly in
.IR objfile .
By default, the output filename is formed by
removing the 
.B .s
suffix, if there is one, from the input filename
and appending a 
.B .o
suffix.
.TP
.B \-n
Turn off long/short address optimization.
By default, address optimization takes place.
.TP
.B \-m
Run the 
.I m4
macro pre-processor
on the input to the assembler.
.TP
.B \-R
Remove (unlink) the input file after assembly is completed.
This option is off by default.
.TP
.B \-V
Write the version number of the assembler being run on 
the standard error output.
.PP
The
.I ljas
command is a special version of the
.I as 
assembler.  
.I Ljas
produces "long jump" instructions rather than
(short) branch instructions.
.SH FILES
.RI /usr/tmp/\*pas[1-6] XXXXXX
temporary files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.if '\*p'b16' .nr C 1
.if '\*p'x86' .nr C 1
.br
\*pld(1),
m4(1),
\*pnm(1),
\*pstrip(1),
a.out(4).
.SH WARNING
If the 
.B \-m
(
.I m4
macro pre-processor invocation) option is used,
keywords for
.I m4
.RI "(see " m4 (1))
cannot be used as symbols (variables, functions, labels)
in the input file because
.I m4
cannot determine which are assembler symbols and 
which are real 
.I m4
macros.
.SH BUGS
Arithmetic expressions are permitted to have only 
one forward referenced symbol per expression.
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)as.1	1.10	
