.\"	@(#)conv.1	1.6	
.TH CONV 1
.SH NAME
conv \- object file converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "conv [\-] [\-a] [\-o] [\-p] [\-s] \-t " "target files"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I conv\^
command converts object files from their current format
to the format of the
.I target\^
machine.  The converted file is written to 
.BR file.v .
.PP
Command line options are:
.TP 14
.B \-
read
.I files\^
from
.IR stdin .
.TP 14
.B \-a
If the input file is an archive, produce the output file in the
old archive format.
.TP 14
.B \-o
If the input file is 
an archive, produce the output file in the
\s-1UNIX\s+1 6.0 portable archive format.
.TP 14
.B \-p
\s-1UNIX\s+1 5.0 random access archive format.  This is the default.
.TP 14
.B \-s
Function exactly as 3bswab, i.e., ``preswab'' all characters in
the object file.  This is useful only for 3B20 object files
which are to be ``swab-dumped'' from a DEC machine to a 3B20.
.TP 14
.BI \-t " target"
Convert the object file to the byte ordering of the machine
(target) to which the object file is being shipped.  This may
be another host or a target machine.  Legal values for
.I target\^
are:  pdp, vax, ibm, i80, x86, b16, n3b, m32, and mc68.
.PP
.I Conv\^
can be used to convert all object files in common object file
format.  It can be used on either the source ("sending") or
target ("receiving") machine.
.PP
.I Conv\^
is meant to ease the problems created by a multi-host cross-compilation
development environment.  
.I Conv\^
is best used within a procedure for shipping object files from one
machine to another.
.PP
.I Conv\^
will recognize and produce archive files in three formats:  the
\s-1UNIX\s+1 pre-5.0 format, the 5.0 random access format, and the
6.0 portable \s-1ASCII\s+1
.SH "EXAMPLE"
\f3*ship object files from pdp11 to ibm\f1
.br
\f3$echo *.out | conv \-t ibm \-$OFC/foo.o\f1
.br
\f3$uucp *.v my370!~/rje/\f1
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
All diagnosics for the \f2conv\f1 command are intended to
be self-explanatory.  Fatal diagnostics on the command lines
cause termination.  Fatal diagnostics on an input file cause the
program to continue to the next input file.
.SH "WARNINGS"
\f2Conv\f1 does not convert archives from one format to
another if both the source and target machines have the
same byte ordering.
