.TH DIS 1 
.SH NAME
dis \-  disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dis
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-L ]
.RB [ \-d " sec]"
.RB [ \-da " sec]"
.RB [ \-F " function]"
.RB [ \-t " sec]"
.RB [ \-l " string]"
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I dis
command
produces an assembly language listing
of each of its
object
.IR file
arguments.
The listing includes
assembly
statements
and the binary that
produced those statements.
.PP
The following options are
interpreted by the disassembler and may be specified in any order.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-o
Print numbers in octal.
Default is hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-V
Write the version number of the disassembler to standard error.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-L
Invoke a lookup of C source labels in the symbol table for
subsequent printing.
.PP
.TP 12
.BI \-d " sec\^"
Disassemble the 
named section as data,
printing the offset of
the data from the
beginning of the section.
.PP
.TP 12
.BI \-da " sec\^"
Disassemble the 
named section as data,
printing the actual 
address of the data.
.PP
.TP 12
.BI \-t " sec\^"
Disassemble the
named section as text.
.PP
.TP 12
.BI \-l " string\^"
Disassemble the
library file specified
as
.IR string .
For example,
one would issue the
command
.B "dis \-l x \-l z"
to disassemble
.B libx.a
and
.B libz.a\c
\&.
All libraries are
assumed to be in
.BR /lib .
.PP
If the
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-da ,
or
.BR \-t
options are specified,
only those named
sections from each
user supplied filename
are disassembled.
Otherwise, all sections
containing text 
are disassembled.
.PP
If the
.BR \-F
option is specified, only those named functions from
each user supplied filename are disassembled.
.PP
On output, a number enclosed in brackets
at the beginning of a line,
such as 
.BR [5] ,
represents that the C breakpointable line number
starts with the following instruction.
An expression such as
.B <40>
in the operand field,
following a relative displacement
for control transfer instructions,
is the computed address
within the section to which
control will be transferred.
A C function name
will appear in the first column,
followed by
.BR (\|) .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR as (1),
.IR cc (1),
.IR ld (1).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The self-explanatory diagnostics
indicate errors in
the command line or problems
encountered with the
specified files.
.\"	@(#)dis.1	1.8	
