.TH GRAPHICS 1G
.SH NAME
graphics \- access graphical and numerical commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graphics
[ \f3\-r\f1 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Graphics\^
appends the pathname
.B /usr/bin/graf
to the current
.B $\s-1PATH\s+1
value,
changes the primary shell prompt to \f3^\f1,
and executes a new shell.
The directory
.B /usr/bin/graf
contains all of the Graphics subsystem commands.
If the \f3\-r\f1 option is given,
access to the graphical commands is created
in a restricted environment;
that is,
.B $\s-1PATH\s+1
is set to
\f3/:rbin:\%/usr/rbin:\%/bin:\%/usr/bin:\%/usr/bin/graf\f1
and the restricted shell,
.IR rsh ,
is invoked.
To restore the environment that existed prior to
issuing the
.I graphics\^
command, type
.B \s-1EOT\s+1
(control-d on most terminals).
To log off from the graphics environment,
type
.BR quit .
.PP
The command line format for a command in
.I graphics\^
is \f2command name\f1 followed by \f2argument\f1(s).
An \f2argument\f1 may be a \f2filename\f1 or an \f2option string\f1.
A \f2filename\f1 is the name of any system file except those
beginning with \f3\-\f1.
The \f2filename\f1 \f3\-\f1 is the name for the standard input.
An \f2option string\f1 consists of \f3\-\f1 followed by one or more \f2option\f1(s).
An \f2option\f1 consists of a keyletter possibly followed by a value.
\f2Options\f1 may be separated by commas.
.PP
The graphical commands have been partitioned into 4 groups.
.IP
Commands that manipulate and plot numerical data; see
.IR stat (1G).
.IP
Commands that generate tables of contents; see
.IR toc (1G).
.IP
Commands that interact with graphical devices; see
.IR gdev (1G)
and
.IR ged (1G).
.IP
A collection of graphical utility commands; see
.IR gutil (1G).
.PP
A list of the
.I graphics\^
commands can be generated
by typing
.B whatis
in the 
.I graphics\^
environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
gdev(1G),
ged(1G),
gutil(1G),
stat(1G),
toc(1G),
gps(4).
.br
.IR "\*(6) Graphics Guide" .
.\"	@(#)graphics.1g	1.6	
