.TH LPD 1C
.SH NAME
lpd \-  line printer daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/lpd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lpd\^
is the daemon for a line printer and uses the directory
.BR /usr/spool/lpd .
The file
.B lock
in either directory
is used
to prevent two daemons from becoming active simultaneously.
After the program has successfully set the lock,
it forks and the main path exits, thus
spawning the daemon.
The directory is scanned for files
beginning with
``df''.
Each such file is submitted as a job.
Each line of a job file must begin with a key
character to specify what to do with the remainder
of the line.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 7
.B L
specifies that the remainder of the line is to
be sent as a literal.
.TP 7
.B I
is the same as
.BR L ,
but signals the $
.SM IDENT
card
which is to be mailed back by the mail option.
.TP 7
.B B
specifies that the rest of the line
is a filename.
That file is to
be sent as binary cards.
.TP 7
.B F
is the same as
.B B
except a form-feed is prepended to the file.
.TP 7
.B U
specifies that the rest of the line
is a filename.
After the job has been transmitted,
the file is unlinked.
.TP 7
.B M
is followed by a user \s-1ID\s+1; after the job is sent,
a message is
mailed to the user via the
.IR mail (1)
command
to verify the sending of the job.
.TP 7
.B N
is followed by a user filename, to be sent back
under the mail option.
.PD
.PP
Any error encountered causes the daemon to
drop the call,
wait up to 10 seconds,
and start over.
This means that an improperly constructed
``df''
file may cause the same job to be submitted
every 10 seconds.
.PP
.I Lpd\^
is automatically initiated by the line printer command,
.IR lpr .
.PP
To restart
.I lpd\^
(in the case of hardware or software malfunction),
it is necessary to first kill the old
daemon
(if it is still alive),
and remove the lock file
(if present),
before initiating
the new daemon.
This can be done automatically
by
.B /etc/rc
when the system is brought up,
in the event there were jobs left in the spooling directory
when the system last went down.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/usr/spool/lpd/\(**
spool area for line printer daemon.
.TP
/etc/passwd
to get the user's name.
.TP
/dev/lp
line printer device.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
lpr(1).
.SH BUGS
If a
.IR umask (1)
of 077 is used, the print jobs may be spooled but cannot
be printed.
.\"	@(#)lpd.1c	1.3	
