.TH NM 1 
.SH NAME
nm \- print name list of common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR nm
.BR [ \-a ]
.BR [ \-d ]
.BR [ \-o ]
.BR [ \-x ]
.BR [ \-h ]
.BR [ \-v ]
.BR [ \-n ]
.BR [ \-e ]
.BR [ \-f ]
.BR [ \-u ]
.BR [ \-V ]
.BR [ \-T ]
filename(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I nm
command
displays the symbol table of each
common object file
.IR filename .
.IR Filename
may be a relocatable or absolute common object file,
or it may be an archive of relocatable or absolute common object files.
\fINm\fP prints the following information for each symbol.  Note that
the object file must have been compiled with the \f3\-g\f1 option of the
\f2cc\f1(1) command for there to be \f3Type\f1, \f3Size\f1, or \f3Line\f1
information.
.PP
.TP 9
.I Name
The name of the symbol.
.TP 9
.I Value
Its value expressed as an offset or an address
depending on its storage class.
.TP 9
.I Class
Its storage class.
.TP 9
.I Tv
If the symbol is accessed through a transfer vector,
this field contains \fBtv\fP.
.TP 9
.I Type
Its type and derived type.
If the symbol is an instance of a structure or a union, the structure
or union tag is given following the type (e.g., \fBstruct-tag\fP).
If the symbol is an array, the array dimensions are given 
following the type (e.g.,
\f3char\f1[\f3n\f1] [\f3m\f1]).
.TP 9
.I Size
Its size in bytes, if available.
.TP 9
.I Line
The source line number at which it is defined, if available.
.TP 9
.I Section
For storage classes static and external,
the object file section containing the symbol
(e.g., text, data, or bss).
.DT
.br
.PP
The output of
.I nm
may be controlled using the following options:
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-d
Print the value and size of a symbol in decimal
instead of hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-o
Print the value and size of a symbol in octal instead
of hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Print the value and size of a symbol in hexadecimal
(the default).
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-h
Do not display the output header data.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-v
Sort external symbols by value before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-n
Sort external symbols by name before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-e
Print only static and external symbols.
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-f
Produce full output.  Redundant symbols (.test, .data, .bss),
normally suppressed, are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-u
Print undefined symbols only.
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-V
Print the version of the \fInm\fP command executing
on the standard error output.
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-T
Truncate long names.  By default, \fInm\fP prints
the entire name of the
symbols listed.  Since object files can have symbol
names with an arbitrary number of characters, a name
that is longer than the width of the column set aside
for names will overflow, forcing every column after
the name to be misaligned.  The \fB-T\fP option causes
\fInm\fP to truncate every name which would otherwise 
overflow its column and place an asterisk as the last
character in the displayed name to mark it as truncated.
.DT
.br
.PP
Options may be used in any order, either singly or in combination,
and may appear anywhere in the command line.
Therefore, both 
.B "nm name \-e \-v"
and
.B "nm \-ve name"
print the static and external symbols in
.IR name ,
with external symbols sorted by value.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/nm??????
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
When all the symbols are printed, they must be
printed in the order they appear in the symbol
table in order to preserve scoping information.
Therefore, the 
.BR \-v
and
.BR \-n
options should be used only in conjunction with
the
.BR \-e
option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
as(1), cc(1), ld(1), a.out(4), ar(4).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.PD 0
.PP
.TP 28
.B "nm:  name:  cannot open"
.I Name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 28
.B "nm:  name:  bad magic"
.I Name
is not an appropriate common object file.
.PP
.TP 28
.B "nm:  name:  no symbols"
The symbols have been stripped from
.IR name .
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)nm.1	1.7	
