.TH OD 1 
.SH NAME
od \- octal dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B od
[
.B \-bcdosx
] [ file ] [ [
.B +
]offset[
.BR ". " "]["
\fBb\fR ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Od\^
dumps
.I file\^
in
one or more formats
as
selected by the first argument.
If the first argument is missing,
.B \-o
is default.
The meanings of the format options are:
.TP 6
.B  \-b
Interpret bytes in octal.
.TP
.B  \-c
Interpret bytes in \s-1ASCII\s0.
Certain non-graphic characters appear as C escapes:
null=\f3\e\|0\fP,
backspace=\f3\e\|b\fP,
form-feed=\f3\e\|f\fP,
new-line=\f3\e\|n\fP,
return=\f3\e\|r\fP,
tab=\f3\e\|t\fP;
others appear as 3-digit octal numbers.
.TP
.B  \-d
Interpret words in unsigned decimal.
.TP
.B  \-o
Interpret words in octal.
.TP
.B  \-s
Interpret 16-bit words in signed decimal.
.TP
.B  \-x
Interpret words in hex.
.PP
The
.I file\^
argument specifies which file is to be dumped.
If no file argument is specified,
the standard input is used.
.PP
The offset argument specifies the offset
in the file where dumping is to commence.
This argument is normally interpreted
as octal bytes.
If \fB.\fR is appended, the offset is interpreted in
decimal.
If \fBb\fR is appended, the offset is interpreted in
blocks of 512 bytes.
If the file argument is omitted,
the offset argument must be preceded by
.BR + .
.PP
Dumping continues until end-of-file.
.PP
An asterisk (*) appearing on a line by itself in the
output indicates that the previous line is repeated until
the next full line.  This output commonly occurs when
\fIod\fR is used on a file that contains multiple nulls.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dump(1).
.\"	@(#)od.1	1.4	
