.TH STRIP 1 
.SH NAME
strip \- strip symbol and line number information from an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B strip
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-V ]
filename(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I strip
command
strips the symbol table and line number information from
object files,
including archives.
When \fIstrip\fP has been performed, no symbolic debugging access
is available for that file; therefore, this command is
normally run only on production modules that have
been debugged and tested.
.PP
The amount of information stripped from the symbol table
can be controlled by using the 
following  options:
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-l
Strip line number information only;
do not strip any symbol table information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Do not strip static or external symbol information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-r
Reset the relocation indexes into the symbol table.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-s
Reset the line number indexes into the symbol table (do not remove).
Reset the relocation indexes into the symbol table.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Print the version of the \fIstrip\fP command
executing on the standard error output.
.DT
.br
.PP
If there are any relocation entries in the object file and any symbol
table information is to be stripped,
.I strip
complains and terminates without stripping
.I filename
unless the
.B \-r
flag is used.
.PP
If the 
.IR strip
command is executed on a common archive file (see
.IR ar (4))
the archive symbol table is removed.  The archive
symbol table must be restored by executing the
.IR ar (1)
command with the 
.B s
option before the archive can be
link edited by the 
.IR ld (1)
command.  
.IR Strip (1)
instructs the user with appropriate warning messages when this
situation arises.
.PP
The purpose of this command is to reduce the file storage
overhead taken by the object file.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/str??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
as(1), cc(1), ld(1), ar(4), a.out(4).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B "strip:  name:  cannot open"
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 30
.B "strip:  name:  bad magic"
.I name
is not an 
object file.
.PP
.TP 30
.B "strip:  name:  relocation entries present; cannot strip"
.I name
contains relocation
entries and the
.B \-r
flag was not used;
therefore, the symbol table
information cannot be stripped.
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)strip.1	1.7	
