.\"@(#)uux.1c	5.2
.TH UUX 1C
.SH NAME
uux \- unix to unix command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uux
[
options
]
command-string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uux\^
gathers zero or more files from various systems,
executes a command on a specified system
and then sends standard output to a file on a specified
system.
Note that, for security reasons, many installations
limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.IR uux .
Many sites permit little more than
the receipt of mail (see
.IR mail (1))
via 
.IR uux .
.PP
The \fIcommand-string\fP is made up of one or more arguments that look
like a shell command line,
except that the command names and filenames
may be prefixed by
.IB system-name !\fR.\fP
A null \fIsystem-name\fP is interpreted as the local system.
.PP
Filenames may be one of
.IP
(1) a full pathname;
.IP
(2) a pathname preceded by
.BI ~ xxx\^
where
.I xxx\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.br
.IP
(3) prefixed by the current directory.
.PP
As an example, the command
.IP
uux "\^!diff usg!/usr/dan/f1 pwba!/a4/dan/f1 > !f1.diff\^"
.PP
gets the \fBf1\fP files from the ``usg'' and ``pwba'' machines,
executes a
.I diff\^
command
and puts the results in \fBf1.diff\fP in the local directory.
.PP
Any special shell characters such as \fB<>;\(bv\fP should be quoted either
by quoting the entire \fIcommand-string\fP, or quoting the special
characters as individual arguments.
.PP
.I Uux\^
attempts to get all files to the execution system.
For output files, the filename must be escaped using
parentheses.
For example, the command
.IP
uux a!uucp b!/usr/file \\(c!/usr/file\\)
.PP
sends a \fIuucp\fP command to system ``a'' to get
\fB/usr/file\fP from system ``b'' and send it to system ``c''.
.PP
.I Uux\^
notiies you if the requested command on the remote
system is disallowed.
The response comes by remote mail from the remote machine.
.PP
The following \fIoptions\fP are interpreted by
.IR uux :
.TP .5i
.B \-
The standard input to
.I uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP .5i
.B \-n
Send no notification to user.
.TP 
.BI \-m file\^
Report status of the transfer in
.I file.\^
If
.I file
is omitted, send mail to the requester when the copy is
completed.
.PP
.I Uux\^
returns an \s-1ASCII\s+1 string on the standard output which is the job number.
This job number can be used by
.I uustat\^
to obtain the status 
or terminate a job.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 22
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/\(**
other data and programs
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
uuclean(1M),
uucp(1C).
.SH BUGS
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a
.IB system-name !\fR.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.br
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B \(**
will probably not do what you want it to do.
The shell tokens
.B <<
and
.B >>
are not implemented.
.\"	@(#)uux.1c	1.4	
