.\"	@(#)bo.8	1.16	
.TH BO 8 
.SH NAME
bo \- bootstrap operating procedure for system restart 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bo 
.RB "[\<device>\]"
.RB "[\,\<controller>\]"
.RB "[\,\<string>\]"
.SS Options
.TP 14
device	
a single hexadecimal digit (0-F) specifying
the device to be used (default = 0).
.TP 14
controller
a single hexadecimal digit (0-F) specifying
the controller to which the device is 
connected (default = 0).
.TP 14
string
an optional ASCII character string (maximum
of 18 characters) that is passed to the 
program being loaded from the specified 
device and controller.  This string may
be the pathname of the \*(5) program to
be booted (default =
.BR "/stand/unix" ")."   
.SH DESCRIPTION
When the system is turned on, the front panel status should be
.BR "01". 
Perform the system self-test by holding the system reset
and the system test buttons depressed.  Release first the system
reset button and then release the system test button.  The status
changes to
.B EA
while memory is initialized, then to
.B "01"
when the test is complete.  The prompt
.B "P*"
appears after the Return key is pressed.
After receiving the prompt, type:
.B bo
(drive 0 is the default and accesses the fixed media).  If the system
resides on the removable media, type:
.B "bo 1"
(drive 1 is accessed).
The CRT displays:
.sp
.ti +3
.B INIT SINGLE USER MODE
.ti +3
.B #
.sp
Enter:
.B "init 2"   
.sp
The CRT displays:
.DS
.B "INIT: New run level: 2"
.br
.B "Is the date <day> <month> <date> <time> <year> correct? (y or n)"
.DE
If the date is incorrect, type:
.B n
and set the date and time.  For the correct date and time, the following
format is required: \f2mmddhhmm[yy]\f1, where
mm=month, dd=day, hh=hour, mm=minute, yy=year (refer to 
.IR date (1)).  
For example:
.sp
.ti +3
Sept. 28, 1983 at 7:30am is
.B 0928073083
.sp
If the date is
correct, type:
.B y
; the CRT displays:
.sp
.ti +3
.B "Do you want to check the file system? (y or n)"
.sp
To prevent possible system damage, a file system check is recommended.
Enter:
.B "y" .
The following is an example of a file system check display:
.sp
.ti +3
.B "/dev/dk10"
.ti +3
.B "File System: /d0 Volume: fixed"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 1 - Check Blocks and Sizes"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 2 - Check Pathnames"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 3 - Check Connectivity"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 4 - Check Reference Counts"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 5 - Check Free List"
.ti +5
.B "<n> files <n> blocks <n> free"
.sp
.B "***SYSTEM MULTI-USER <day> <month> <date> <time> <year>***"
.sp
If a file system check is not required, enter: 
.B n
; the "SYSTEM MULTI-USER" display is printed.
.sp
A login prompt now appears on activated CRT terminals.
.SH FILES  
/stand/unix
.SH SEE ALSO
date(1), fsck(1M), init(1M), m68kops(8).
.SH WARNINGS
Memory initialization must be completed before this boot
procedure is used.
