.\"	@(#)m68kops.8	1.8	
.TH M68KOPS 8
.SH NAME
m68kops \- EXORmacs operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
The procedures described include the major operational
sequences involved in running \*(5) on the EXORmacs.
.PP
.SH "SYSTEM TESTS"
.PP
The EXORmacs uses controls and indicators,
located on the chassis, to provide system
reset, test, and abort functions as well as to display system
status.  Refer to Chapter 2 (``Panel Assemblies'') of the
.I "EXORmacs Chassis User's Guide" 
(M68KCHAS) for information on the functions
of panel controls.
.PP
.SH "INSTALLATION BOOT PROCEDURES"
.PP
1.  When the system is turned on, the front panel status should
be 01.  Perform the system self-test by holding the system reset
and the system test buttons depressed.  Release first the system
reset button and then release the system test button.  The status
will change to
.B EA
while memory is initialized, then to 01 when the
test is complete.  The prompt
.B "P*"
appears on the terminal
after the Return key is
pressed.  After receiving the prompt, type:
.B "bo 1"
(drive 1 is accessed to locate the object file
.B "/stand/unix" ).
The CRT displays:
.PP
.ti +3
.B INIT SINGLE USER MODE
.ti +3
.B #
.PP
At this point, the system administrator must determine which of the
two disks, removable or fixed, is to be used as the system base.
The following procedures apply to
these selections:
.PP
REMOVABLE DISK.  Enter:
.B "init 2"
(refer to part 2 of this section for 
a continuation of the boot procedure).
.PP
FIXED DISK.  The administrator must:
.br
.in +3
1.  enter:
.B sync
three times (for safety)
.br
2.  copy file:
.B "dd if=/dev/rdk10 of=/dev/rdk00 bs=8192"
.br
3.  mount fixed:
.B "mount /dev/dk00 /d0"
.br
4.  enter:
.B "ln -f /d0/dev/dk06 /d0/dev/swap"
.br
5.  enter:
.B "echo /dev/dk00 > /d0/etc/checklist"
.br
6.  unmount fixed:
.B "umount /dev/dk00"
.br
7.  enter:
.B sync
three times
.br
8.  depress the Reset button on the chasis
.br
9.  enter:
.B bo
.br
10. enter:
.B "init 2"
(refer to part 2 of this section for a
continuation of the boot procedure).
.in -3
.PP
NOTE: The EXORmacs must be equipped with quad communications modules
(M68KV7) in order to use
.BR "/dev/tty0[2-9]" .
Also,
.B "bs=8192"
is the current value for block size. 
.P
.ti 21
CAUTION
.PP
IF THE SYSTEM IS TO BE BASED ON THE FIXED DISK, SAVE ANYTHING 
NEEDED THAT IS CURRENTLY ON THAT DISK.  ITS CONTENTS WILL BE
DESTROYED BY THE ACTIONS TAKEN TO CREATE A FIXED DISK BASED
\*(5).
.PP
2.  The CRT displays:
.PP
.DS
.B "INIT: New run level: 2"
.br
.B "Is the date <day> <month> <date> <time> <year> correct? (y or n)"
.DE
.PP
If the date is incorrect, type:
.B n
and set the date and time.  For the correct date and time, the following
format is required:
.IR "mmddhhmm[yy]" ,
where  
mm=month, dd=day, hh=hour, mm=minute, yy=year (refer to 
.IR date (1)).  
For example:
.PP
.ti +3
Sept. 28, 1983 at 7:30am is
.B 0928073083
.PP
If the date is correct, type:
.B y
; the CRT displays:
.PP
.ti +3
.B "Do you want to check the file system? (y or n)"
.PP
To prevent possible system damage, a file system check is recommended.
Enter:
.B y .
The following is an example of a file system check display:
.PP
.ti +3
.B "/dev/dk10"
.ti +3
.B "File System: /d0 Volume: fixed"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 1 - Check Blocks and Sizes"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 2 - Check Pathnames"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 3 - Check Connectivity"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 4 - Check Reference Counts"
.ti +5
.B "** Phase 5 - Check Free List"
.ti +5
.B "<n> files <n> blocks <n> free"
.PP
.B "***SYSTEM MULTI-USER <day> <month> <date> <time> <year>***"
.PP
If a file system check is not required, enter: 
.B n
; the ``SYSTEM MULTI-USER'' display is printed.
.PP
A login prompt now appears on activated CRT terminals.
.sp
.SH DAILY PROCEDURES
.PP
.B "DISK BOOT"
.P       
For system restart, see:
.IR bo (8).
.PP
.B "BRINGING THE SYSTEM DOWN"
.PP
The shutdown procedure is designed to turn off all processes
and bring the system back to single user state with all
buffers flushed.  To do this the operator should execute
.IR "shutdown" (1M).
If
.I "shutdown"
is not successful, use the following
sequence of commands:
.PP
.in +5
.B killall
.br
.B sync
.br
.B telinit S
.br
.BR "fsck " (optional)
.br
.B sync
.br
.B sync
.in -5
.PP
The system may then be halted by pressing the 
Reset button on the chassis.
.PP
.B "SYSTEM DUMPS"
.PP
After a crash, the following procedure should be used to get
a system dump:
.PP
1.  Press the Software Abort button on the EXORmacs
(pressing the System Reset button also works,
but it destroys all of the system interrupt vectors).  The prompt
.B "P*"
appears.
.PP
2.  Enter:
.PP
.ti +3 
.B g 400
.PP
This starts the dump.  After a short period of time, the system
responds with:
.PP
.ti +3
.BI "Dump complete.  dd skip="xxx ", dd count=""yyy"
.PP
where
.I "xxx"
and
.I "yyy"
are decimal numbers (of blocks) to
be used later.
.PP
If the system responds instead with:
.PP
.ti +3
.B "I/O error during dump"
.PP
then some type of I/O error has occurred.  Try pressing
the System Reset button and re-enter
.hw "g 400"
.B "g 400" .
If the error
message appears a second time, consult local lab support 
personnel.
.PP
3.  Press the System Reset button and boot the system (see
.IR bo "(8))."
DO NOT enter
.B "init 2"
when the system comes up;
remain in Single User mode.
.PP
Should the system not come up, refer to
.IR "crash" (8)
for
additional information.
.PP
4.  If the root file system does not have sufficient room for
the core dump (at least
.I "yyy"
blocks free), then a file
system with enough room has to be mounted.  Refer to 
.IR mount (1M).
.PP
5.  If the number
.I "yyy"
from Step 2 is larger than 2048,
then the maximum writable file size has to be increased in
order to save the system dump.  To increase file size, enter:
.BI "ulimit " "n"
where
.I "n"
= whatever size is sufficient.  For example:
.PP
.ti +3
.B "ulimit 32768"
.PP
The size should be at least
.I "yyy" .
.PP
6.  Since the dump was written to the system swap area, it must
be saved in a file for later analysis.  To save the dump in a
file, enter:
.PP
.in +3
.BI "dd if=/dev/swap of=" filename " skip=" xxx " count=""yyy"
.in -3
.PP
where
.I "name"
is the name of the file that receives the dump;
.I "xxx"
and
.I "yyy"
are the numbers from Step 2.  If
.I "xxx"
is 0, then the
.I "skip"
parameter does not have to be
included on the
.B "dd"
command line. 
.PP
7.  If a file system was mounted in Step 4, unmount it now.
Refer to
.I "umount"
in
.IR "mount" (1M).
.PP
8.  Check the file system by running
.IR "fsck" (1M).
.PP
9.  Boot the system normally (see
.IR bo (8)),
assuming 
.I fsck
completed normally.
.PP
10. Once the system is back up, the following command starts
.IR crash (1M)
so that the dump can be analyzed:
.PP
.ti +3
\f3/etc/crash /fixed/\f2filename\f1
.sp
.B "SYSTEM FAULTS"
.PP
Refer to  
.I "MACSbug Monitor Reference Manual"
(M68KMACSBG).
.PP
.SH FILES
/etc/shutdown
/stand/*
.SH SEE ALSO
date(1), dd(1), fsck(1M), init(1M),
shutdown(1M), sync(1), bo(8),
.IR "EXORmacs Chassis User's Guide" (M68KCHAS),
.IR "MACSbug Monitor Reference Manual" (M68KMACSBG),
``Setting Up \*(5)'' in the
.IR "\*(6) Administrator's Guide" .
