.tr ~"
.if t .ds i \(fm\(fm
.if n .ds i ""
.TH MAN 5
.SH NAME
man \- macros for formatting entries in this manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
nroff \-man
files
.PP
.B
troff \-man
[
.B \-rs1
] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
These
.IR troff (1)
macros are used to lay out the format of the entries of this manual.
A skeleton entry may be found in the file
.BR /usr/man/u_man/man0/skeleton .
These macros are used by the
.IR man (1)
command.
.PP
The default page size is 8.5\*i\(mu11\*i, with a 6.5\*i\(mu10\*i text area;
the
.B \-rs1
option reduces these dimensions to 6\*i\(mu9\*i and 4.75\*i\(mu8.375\*i, respectively;
this option, which is
not
effective in
.IR nroff (1),
also reduces the default type size from 10-point to 9-point and the
vertical line spacing from 12-point to 10-point.
The
.B \-rV2
option may be used to set certain parameters to values
appropriate
for certain Versatec printers:
it sets the line length to 82 characters and the page length to
84 lines, and it inhibits underlining;
this option should not be confused with the
.B \-Tvp
option of the
.IR man (1)
command,
which is available at some
.SM UNIX
System sites.
.PP
Any
.I text\^
argument below may be one to six ``words''.
Double quotes
.RB ( ~~ )
must be used to include blanks in a ``word''.
If
.I text\^
is empty,
the special treatment is applied to
the next line that contains text to be printed.
For example,
.SM
.B \&.I
may be used to italicize a whole line, or
.SM
.B \&.SM
followed by
.SM
.B \&.B
to make small bold text.
By default, hyphenation is turned off for
.I nroff\^
but remains on for
.IR troff .
.PP
Type font and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph and after processing
font-setting and size-setting macros,
e.g.,
.SM
.BR \&.I\*S ,
.SM
.BR \&.RB\*S ,
.SM
.BR \&.SM\*S .
Tab stops are neither used nor set by any macro
except
.SM
.B \&.DT
and
.SM
.BR \&.TH\*S .
.PP
Default units for indents (\f2in\f1) are ens.  When a macro
is given without the \f2in\f1 argument, the previous indent
is used.  The "remembered" indent is set to its default value
by the
.BR \&.TH ,\| .P ,\| .SH ,\|and
.B \&.SS\^
macros.  This value is 7.2 ens in \fItroff\fR and 5 ens in
\fInroff\fR; both are equal to 0.5 inches in the default
page size.  This means that within each subheading section
(\s-1SYNOPSIS\s+1, \s-1DESCRIPTION\s+1, etc.) the default
left margin is 0.5 inches to the right of the page offset
(i.e., normal left margin) of the page.  If the entire page
width is needed (e.g., to format a large table), use \f3.in\f1
alone on a line to override the default indented margin.
.PP
Each macro description below includes the effect on
indentation, as applicable.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'.TH t s c n  'u"
.SM
.BI \&.TH " \*St s c n\^"
Set the title and entry heading;
.I t\^
is the title,
.I s\^
is the section number,
.I c\^
is extra commentary, e.g., ``local'',
.I n\^
is new manual name.
Invokes
.SM
.B \&.DT
(see below).
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.SH " \*Stext\^"
Place subhead
.IR text ,
e.g.,
.SM
.BR SYNOPSIS\*S ,
here.  The text lines that follow the heading are block-style
paragraphs; the whole block is indented 0.5 inches.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.SS " \*Stext\^"
Place sub-subhead
.IR text ,
e.g.,
.BR Options ,
here.  The text lines that follow the heading are block-style
paragraphs; the whole block is indented 0.5 inches.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.B " \*Stext\^"
Make
.I text\^
bold.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.I " \*Stext\^"
Make
.I text\^
italic.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.SM " \*Stext\^"
Make
.I text\^
1 point smaller than default point size.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.RI " \*Sa b\^"
Concatenate roman
.I a\^
with italic
.IR b ,
and alternate these two fonts for up to six arguments.
Similar macros alternate between any two of roman,
italic, and bold:
.RS
.RS
.SM
.B "\&.IR   .RB   .BR   .IB   .BI"
.RE
.RE
.TP
.SM
.B \&.P
Skip one vertical space and begin a paragraph
with normal font, point size, and indent (0.5 inches).
.SM
.B \&.PP
has the same effect as
.SM
.BR \&.P \*S.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.HP " \*Sin\^"
Skip one vertical space and begin a paragraph with a hanging
indent.  The first line of the paragraph will be indented
the default 0.5 inches from the page offset.  The other lines
will be indented the additional number of ens specified by \fIin\fR.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.TP " \*Sin\^"
Skip one vertical space and begin indented paragraph with hanging tag.
The next line that contains text to be printed is taken as the
tag.  The indentation from the beginning of the tag to the
beginning of the paragraph is specified by the \fIin\fR argument.
If the tag does not fit, it is printed on a separate line.
Format within the paragraph can be controlled by using the
\fInroff\fR commands \fB.br\fR and \fB.nf\fR (refer to the
.IR "\*(6) Document Processing Guide" ).
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.IP " \*St in\^"
Same as
.SM
.BI \&.TP " \*Sin\^"
with tag
.IR t ;
often used to get an indented paragraph without a tag.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.RS " \*Sin\^"
Increase indentation relative to the current margin.  If
given without an argument, the text following the macro will
be indented 0.5 inches.  The \fB.RS\fR macro does not cause
a vertical space to be inserted before the following output.
Use \fB.sp\fR on the line before the \fB.RS\fR line to obtain
this space.  If an \fIin\fR argument is given,
the \fB.RS\fR macro will indent the following output
.I in\^
units
from the current left margin.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.RE " \*Sk\^"
Return to the
.IR k th
relative indent level
(initially,
.IR k =1;
.IR k =0
is equivalent to
.IR k =1);
if
.I k\^
is omitted, return to the most recent lower indent level.
\fB\&.RS\fR/\fB.RE\fR pairs can be nested.
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.PM " \*Sm\^"
Produces proprietary markings;
where
.I m\^
may be
.B P
for
.SM
.BR PRIVATE\*S ,
.B N
for
.SM
.BR NOTICE\*S ,
.B BP
for
.SM
.BR "BELL LABORATORIES PROPRIETARY\*S" ,
or
.B BR
for
.SM
.BR "BELL LABORATORIES RESTRICTED\*S" .
.TP
.SM
.B \&.DT
Restore default tab settings (every
7.2 ens in
.IR troff ,
5 ens in
.IR nroff ).
.TP
.SM
.BI \&.PD " \*Sv\^"
Set the interparagraph distance to
.I v\^
vertical spaces.
If
.I v\^
is omitted, set the interparagraph distance to the default value
(0.4v in
.IR troff ,
1v in
.IR nroff ).
.PD
.PP
The following
.I strings\^
are defined:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'.TH t s c n  'u"
.SM
.B \e\(**R
.if t \{\(rg
in
.IR troff ,
.B (Reg.)
in
.IR nroff (1). \}
.if n \{``(Reg.)''
in
.IR nroff (1),
``Registered'' symbol in
.IR troff (1). \}
.TP
.SM
.B \e\(**S
Change to default type size.
.TP
.SM
.B \e\(**(Tm
Trademark indicator.
.PD
.PP
The following
.I "number registers\^"
are
given default values by
.SM
.BR \&.TH\*S :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP "\w'.TH t s c n  'u"
.SM
.B IN
Left margin indent relative to subheads
(default is
7.2 ens in
.IR troff ,
5 ens in
.IR nroff ).
.TP
.SM
.B LL
Line length including
.SM
.BR IN \*S.
.TP
.SM
.B PD
Current interparagraph distance.
.PD
.SH WARNINGS
In addition to the macros, strings, and number registers mentioned
above, there are defined a number of
.I internal\^
macros, strings, and number registers.
Except for names predefined by
.I troff
and number registers
.BR d ,
.BR m ,
and
.BR y ,
all such internal names are of the
form
.IR XA ,
where
.I X\^
is
one of
.BR ) ,
.BR ] ,
and
.BR } ,
and
.I A\^
stands for any alphanumeric character.
.PP
If a manual entry needs to be preprocessed by
.IR cw (1),
.IR eqn (1)
(or
.IR neqn ),
and/or
.IR tbl (1),
it must begin with a special line
(described in
.IR man (1)),
causing the
.I man\^
command to invoke the appropriate preprocessor(s).
.PP
The programs that prepare the Table of Contents and the Permuted
Index for the User's Manual and Administrator's Manual assume the
.SM
.I NAME\*S\^
section of each entry consists of a single line of input that has the following
format:
.IP
name[, \|name, \|name \|.\|.\|.] \|\e\- \|explanatory \|text
.PP
To eliminate ambiguity, the macro package increases the inter-word spaces
in the
.SM
.I SYNOPSIS\*S\^
section of each entry.
.PP
The macro package itself uses only the roman font
(so that one can replace, for example, the bold font by the constant-width
font\-see
.IR cw (1)).
Of course, if the input text
of an entry
contains
requests for other fonts (e.g.,
.SM
.BR \&.I\*S ,
.SM
.BR \&.RB\*S ,
.BR \efI ),
the corresponding fonts must be mounted.
If a single word or short phrase needs to be italicized or
emboldened, the following usage can be placed within a line,
rather than creating a separate .B or .I line:  \\fItext\\fR.
.PP
\fINroff\fR and \fItroff\fR formatting commands and macros
are described in the \*(6) Document Processing Guide.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac\f3.\fPan
.br
/usr/lib/macros/cmp\f3.\fP[nt]\f3.\fP[dt]\f3.\fPan
.br
/usr/lib/macros/ucmp\f3.\fP[nt]\f3.\fPan
.br
/usr/man/[ua]_man/man0/skeleton
.br
.ne 8v
.SH SEE ALSO
man(1), nroff(1), troff(1).
.SH BUGS
When using the macros to alternate fonts (e.g., .RB, .IR),
quotation marks must be used to maintain spacing.  For
example, \f3.IR filename\f1 produces filename as one word.
\f3\&.IR "file " name\f1 produces it as two words.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)man.5	1.5	
