.TH FOPEN 3S 
.SH NAME
fopen, freopen, fdopen \- open a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.BR "\s-1FILE\s+1 \(**fopen (" "filename, type " ")"
.br
.BR "char \(**" "filename," " \(**" "type" ";"
.PP
.BR "\s-1FILE\s+1 \(**freopen (" "filename, type, stream" ")"
.br
.BR "char \(**" "filename," " \(**" "type" ";"
.br
.BR "\s-1FILE\s+1 \(**" "stream" ";"
.PP
.BR "\s-1FILE\s+1 \(**fdopen (" "fildes, type" ")"
.br
.BR "int" " fildes" ";"
.br
.BR "char \(**" "type" ";"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fopen\^
opens the file named by
.I filename\^
and associates a
.I stream\^
with it.
.I Fopen\^
returns a pointer to the
.SM FILE
structure associated with
the
.IR stream .
.PP
.I Filename\^
points to a character string that contains
the name of the file to be opened.
.PP
.I Type\^
is a character string having one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 10
.B r
open for reading
.ns
.TP 10
.B w
truncate or create for writing
.ns
.TP 10
.B a
append; open for writing at end
of file, or create for writing
.ns
.TP 10
.B r+
open for update (reading and writing)
.ns
.TP 10
.B w+
truncate or create for update
.ns
.TP 10
.B a+
append; open or create for
update at end-of-file
.RE
.PP
.I Freopen\^
substitutes the named file in place
of the open
.IR stream .
The original
.I stream\^
is closed,
regardless of whether the open
ultimately succeeds.
.I Freopen\^
returns a pointer to the
.SM FILE
structure associated with
.IR stream .
.PP
.I Freopen\^
is typically used to attach the preopened
.I streams\^
associated with
.BR stdin ,
.BR stdout ,
and
.BR stderr
to other files.
.PP
.I Fdopen\^
associates a
.I stream\^
with a file descriptor by formatting a file structure from the
file descriptor.  Thus, \fIfdopen\fP can be used to access
the file descriptors returned by
.IR open (2),
.IR dup (2),
.IR creat (2),
or
.IR pipe (2).
(These calls open files but do not return pointers to a
.SM FILE 
structure.) 
The
.I type\^
of
.I stream\^
must agree with the mode of the open file.
.PP
When a file is opened for update, both input and output may be
done on the resulting
.IR stream .
However, output may not be directly followed by input without an
intervening
.I fseek\^
or
.IR rewind ,
and input may not be directly followed by output without an
intervening
.IR fseek ,
.IR rewind ,
or an input operation which encounters end-of-file.
.PP
When a file is opened for append (i.e., when
.I type\^
is "a" or "a+"), it is impossible to overwrite information
already in the file.
.I Fseek\^
may be used to reposition the file pointer to any position
in the file, but when output is written
to the file the current file pointer is disregarded.
All output is written at the end of the file and causes the file
pointer to be repositioned at the end of the output.  If two separate
processes open the same file for append, each process may write freely
to the file without fear of destroying output being written by the
other.  The output from the two processes will be intermixed in the
file in the order in which it is written.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
open(2),
fclose(3S).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Fopen\^
and 
.I freopen\^
return a
.SM NULL
pointer on failure.
.\"	@(#)fopen.3s	1.7	
