'\" t
.TH GETGRENT 3C 
.SH NAME
getgrent, getgrgid, getgrnam, setgrent, endgrent \- obtain
group file entry from a group file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <grp.h>
.PP
.B struct group \(**getgrent ( )
.PP
.BR "struct group \(**getgrgid (" gid )
.br
.BR int " gid" ;
.PP
.BR "struct group \(**getgrnam (" name )
.br
.BR "char \(**" name ;
.PP
.B void setgrent ( )
.PP
.B void endgrent ( )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Getgrent ,
.IR getgrgid,
and
.I getgrnam\^
each return pointers
to an object
with the following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the
.B /etc/group
file.
Each line contains a group structure, defined in the
.B <grp.h>\^
header file.
.PP
.TS
l1 l1 l1 l.
struct	group {
	char	\(**gr_name;	/\(** the name of the group \(**/
	char	\(**gr_passwd;	/\(** the encrypted group password \(**/
	int	gr_gid;	/\(** the numerical group ID \(**/
	char	\(**\(**gr_mem;	/\(** vector of pointers to member names \(**/
};
.TE
.PP
When first called,
.I getgrent\^
returns a pointer to the first group structure in the file;
thereafter, it returns a pointer to the next group structure in the file;
therefore, successive calls may be
used to search the entire file.
.I Getgrgid\^
searches from the beginning of the file until a numerical group id
matching
.I gid\^
is found; it returns a pointer to the particular structure in which 
the match was found.
.I Getgrnam\^
searches from the beginning of the file until a group name matching
.I name\^
is found; it returns a
pointer to the particular structure in which the match was found.
If an end-of-file or an error
is encountered on reading, these functions return a
.SM NULL
pointer.
.PP
A call to
.I setgrent\^
has the effect of rewinding
the group file
to allow
repeated searches.
.I Endgrent\^
may be called to
close the group file
when processing is complete.
.SH FILES
/etc/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getlogin(3C), getpwent(3C), group(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A
.SM
.B NULL
pointer
is returned on
.SM
.B EOF
or error.
.SH WARNING
The above routines use \fB<stdio.h>\fP. This causes 
them to increase the size of programs
not otherwise using standard I/O more
than might be expected.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area,
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.\"	@(#)getgrent.3c	1.4	
