.TH LDGETNAME 3X
.SH NAME
ldgetname \- retrieve symbol name for object file
symbol table entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "#include <stdio.h>"
.B "#include <filehdr.h>"
.B "#include <syms.h>"
.B "#include <ldfcn.h>"
.fi
.sp
.nf
.BR "char \**ldgetname (" "ldptr, symbol" )
.BR "LDFILE \**" ldptr ;
.BR "SYMENT \**" symbol ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ldgetname
returns a pointer to the name associated with \fIsymbol\fP
as a string.  The string is contained in a static buffer
local to \fIldgetname\fP.  Because the buffer is overwritten
by each call to \fIldgetname\fP, it must be copied by the
caller if the name is to be saved.
.PP
The common object file format has been extended to handle
arbitrary length symbol names with the addition of a "string
table".  \fILdgetname\fP returns the symbol name associated
with a symbol table entry for either an object file or a
pre-object file.  Thus, \fIldgetname\fP can be used to
retrieve names from object files without any backward
compatibility problems.  \fILdgetname\fP returns \fBNULL\fP
(defined in \fB<stdio.h>\fP) for an object file if the
name cannot be retrieved.  This occurs when:
.sp
.TP 8
\-\-
the string table cannot be found.
.TP 8
\-\-
not enough memory can be allocated for the string table.
.TP 8
\-\-
the string table appears not to be a string table (e.g.,
if an auxiliary entry is handed to \fIldgetname\fP that
looks like a reference to a name in a non-existent string
table).
.TP 8
\-\-
the name's offset into the string table is beyond the
end of the string table.
.sp
.br
.PP
Typically, \fIldgetname\fP is called immediately after
a successful call to \fIldtbread\fP to retrieve the
name associated with the symbol table entry filled by
\fIldtbread\fP.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access
routine library \fBlibld.a\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ldclose(3X), ldopen(3X), ldtbseek(3X), ldtbread(3X),
ldfcn(4).
.\"	@(#)ldgetname.3x	1.8	
