.TH LDLREAD 3X
.SH NAME
ldlread, ldlinit, ldlitem \- manipulate line number entries of a common object file function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <linenum.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h>
\}
.el \{\
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/linenum.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h"
\}
.ft R
.PP
.BR "int ldlread (" "ldptr, fcnindx, linenum, linent" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR long " fcnindx" ;
.BR "unsigned short" " linenum" ;
.BR "\s-1LINENO\s+1" " linent" ;
.PP
.BR "int ldlinit (" "ldptr, fcnindx" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR long " fcnindx" ;
.PP
.BR "int ldlitem (" "ldptr, linenum, linent" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "unsigned short" " linenum" ;
.BR "\s-1LINENO\s+1" " linent" ;
.fi
.DT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ldlread
searches the line number entries of the common object file currently
associated with 
.IR ldptr .
.I Ldlread
begins its search with the line number entry for the beginning of a function
and confines its search to the line numbers associated with a single function.
The function is identified by
.IR fcnindx ,
the index of its entry in the object file symbol table.
.IR Ldlread
reads the entry with the smallest line number equal to or greater
than
.I linenum
into
.IR linent .
.PP
.IR Ldlinit
and 
.IR ldlitem
together perform exactly the same function as
.I ldlread.
After an initial call to
.I ldlread
or
.I ldlinit,
.I ldlitem
may be used to retrieve a series of line number entries associated with a
single function.
.I Ldlinit
simply locates the line number entries for the function identified by
.I fcnindx.
.I Ldlitem
finds and reads the entry with the smallest line number equal to or greater
than
.I linenum
into
.IR linent .
.PP
.IR Ldlread ,
.IR ldlinit ,
and
.I ldlitem
each return either 
.B \s-1SUCCESS\s+1
or
.BR \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
.I Ldlread
fails if there are no line number entries in the object file,
if
.I fcnindx
does not index a function entry in the symbol table, or if
it finds no line number equal to or greater than
.IR linenum .
.L
.I Ldlinit
fails if there are no line number entries in the object file or if
.I fcnindx
does not index a function entry in the symbol table.
.I Ldlitem
fails if it finds no line number equal to or greater than
.IR linenum .
.PP
The programs must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libld.a .
\}
.el \{\
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libld.a .
\}
.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*p'' \{\
ldclose(3X),
ldopen(3X),
ldtbindex(3X),
ldfcn(4).
\}
.el \{\
ldclose(3X),
ldopen(3X),
ldtbindex(3X),
intro(4),
ldfcn(4),
paths.h(4).
\}
.\"	@(#)ldlread.3x	1.5	
