.TH MALLOC 3C 
.SH NAME
malloc, free, realloc, calloc \- main memory allocator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "char \(**malloc (" size )
.BR unsigned " size" ;
.PP
.BR "void free (" ptr )
.BR "char \(**" ptr ;
.PP
.BR "char \(**realloc (" "ptr, size" )
.BR "char \(**" ptr ;
.BR unsigned " size" ;
.PP
.BR "char \(**calloc (" "nelem, elsize" )
.BR unsigned " nelem, elsize" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Malloc\^
and
.I free\^
provide a simple general-purpose memory allocation package.
.I Malloc\^
returns a pointer to a block of at least
.I size\^
bytes suitably aligned for any use.
.PP
The argument to
.I free\^
is a pointer to a block previously allocated by
.IR malloc ;
after
.I free\^
is performed this space is made available for further allocation,
but its contents are left undisturbed.
.PP
Undefined results occur if the space
assigned by
.I malloc\^
is overrun or if some random number is handed to
.IR free .
.PP
.I Malloc\^
allocates the first contiguous reach of
free space of sufficient size
found in a circular search from the last 
block allocated or freed;
it coalesces adjacent free blocks as it searches.
It calls
.I sbrk\^
(see
.IR brk (2))
to get more memory from the system when there is no
suitable space already free.
.PP
.I Realloc\^
changes the size of the block pointed to by
.I ptr\^
to
.I size\^
bytes and returns a pointer to the (possibly moved)
block.
The contents are unchanged up to the
lesser of the new and old sizes.
If no free block of
.I size\^
bytes is available in the storage arena,
.I realloc\^
asks
.I malloc\^
to enlarge the arena by
.I size\^
bytes and then moves the data to the new space.
.PP
.I Realloc\^
also works if
.I ptr\^
points to a block freed since the last call of
.IR malloc ,
.IR realloc ,
or
.IR calloc ;
thus sequences of
.IR free ,
.IR malloc ,
and
.I realloc\^
can exploit the search strategy of
.I malloc\^
to do storage compaction.
.PP
.I Calloc\^
allocates space for
an array of
.I nelem\^
elements of size
.IR elsize .
The space is initialized to zeros.
.PP
Each of the allocation routines returns a pointer
to space suitably aligned (after possible pointer coercion)
for storage of any type of object.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IR Malloc ,
.IR realloc ,
and
.I calloc\^
return a
.SM NULL
pointer if there is no available memory
or if the arena has been detectably corrupted by storing outside the bounds
of a block.
When this happens
the block
pointed to by
.I ptr\^
may be destroyed.
.SH NOTE
Search time increases when many objects have been allocated; i.e.,
if a program allocates space but never frees it,
each successive allocation
takes longer.
.\"	@(#)malloc.3c	1.5	
