.TH SLEEP 3C 
.SH NAME
sleep \- suspend execution for interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "unsigned sleep (" seconds )
.br
.BR "unsigned" " seconds" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sleep\^
suspends the current process from execution for the number
of
.I seconds\^
specified by the argument.
The actual suspension time may be less than
that requested for two reasons: (1) scheduled wakeups
occur at fixed 1-second intervals, (on the
second, according to an internal clock) and (2) any caught
signal will terminate 
.I sleep\^
following execution of the signal catching routine.
The suspension time may be longer than requested
by an arbitrary amount, due to the scheduling of other
activity in the system.
The value returned by
.I sleep\^
is the ``unslept'' amount (the requested time minus the time
actually slept) in case the caller had an alarm set to go off
earlier than the end of the requested
.I sleep\^
time or in case there is premature arousal due to another caught signal.
.PP
The routine is implemented by setting an alarm signal
and pausing until it (or some other signal) occurs.
The previous state of the alarm signal is saved and restored.
The calling program may have set up an alarm signal before calling
.IR sleep .
If the
.I sleep\^
time exceeds the time before the alarm signal,
the process sleeps only until the alarm signal would
have occurred and the caller's alarm catch routine is
executed just before the
.I sleep\^
routine returns.  If the
.I sleep\^
time is less than the time before the calling program's alarm,
the prior alarm time is reset to go off at the same time it
would have without the intervening
.IR sleep .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
alarm(2), pause(2), signal(2).
.\"	@(#)sleep.3c	1.4	
