.TH SSIGNAL 3C
.SH NAME
ssignal, gsignal \- software signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.BR "int (\(**ssignal (" "sig, action" "))( )"
.br
.BR int " sig" ", (\(**" "action" ")( );"
.PP
.BR "int gsignal (" sig )
.br
.BR int " sig" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ssignal\^
and
.I gsignal\^
implement a software facility similar to
.IR signal (2).
This facility is used by the Standard C Library to enable users to indicate
the disposition of error conditions; it is also made available to users
for their own purposes.
.PP
Software signals made available to users are associated
with integers in the inclusive
range 1 through 15. A
call to
.I ssignal\^
associates a procedure,
.IR action ,
with the software signal,
.IR sig ;
the software signal,
.IR sig ,
is raised
by a call to
.IR gsignal .
Raising a software signal causes the action established for that signal
to be
taken.
.PP
The first argument to
.I ssignal\^
is a number identifying the type of signal for which an action is to be
established. The second argument defines the action; it is either the
name of a user-defined
.I action\^
function
or one of the manifest constants
.SM
.B SIG_DFL
(default) or
.SM
.B SIG_IGN
(ignore).
.I Ssignal\^
returns the action previously established for that signal type; if no
\fIaction\fP has been established or the signal number (\fIsig\fP)
is illegal,
.I ssignal\^
returns
.SM
.BR SIG_DFL .
.PP
.I Gsignal\^
raises the signal identified by its argument,
.IR sig :
.RS 5
.PP
If an \fIaction\fP function has been established for
.IR sig ,
then that \fIaction\fP is reset to
.SM
.B SIG_DFL
and the \fIaction\fP function is entered with argument
.IR sig .
.I Gsignal\^
returns the value returned to it by the \fIaction\fP function.
.PP
If the \fIaction\fP for
.I sig\^
is
.SM
.BR SIG_IGN ,
.I gsignal\^
returns the value 1 and takes no other action.
.PP
If the \fIaction\fP for
.I sig\^
is
.SM
.BR SIG_DFL ,
.I gsignal\^
returns the value 0 and takes no other action.
.PP
If
.I sig\^
has an illegal value or no \fIaction\fP was ever specified for
.IR sig ,
.I gsignal\^
returns the value 0 and takes no other action.
.RE
.SH NOTES
There are some additional signals with numbers outside the range 1 through 15
which are used by the Standard C Library to indicate error conditions.
Thus, some signal numbers outside the range 1 through 15 are legal, although
their use may interfere with the operation of the Standard C Library.
.\"	@(#)ssignal.3c	1.4	
