.TH TMPNAM 3S 
.SH NAME
tmpnam, tempnam \- create a name for a temporary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.BR "char \(**tmpnam (" s )
.br
.BR "char \(**" s ;
.PP
.BR "char \(**tempnam (" "dir, pfx" )
.br
.BR "char \(**" "dir" ", \(**" pfx ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions generate filenames that can safely be used for
a temporary file.
.PP
.I Tmpnam\^
always generates a filename using the pathname defined as
.I P_tmpdir
in the
.B <stdio.h>\^
header file.
If
.I s\^
is
.SM NULL,
.I tmpnam\^
leaves its result in an internal static area and returns a pointer
to that area.
The next call to
.I tmpnam\^
will destroy the contents of the area.
If
.I s\^
is not
.SM NULL,
it is assumed to be the address of an array of at least
.I L_tmpnam
bytes, where
.I L_tmpnam
is a constant defined in
.BR <stdio.h> ;
.I tmpnam\^
places its result in that array and returns
.IR s .
.P
.I Tempnam\^
allows the user to control the choice of a directory.
The argument
.I dir\^
points to the pathname of the directory in which
the file is to be created.
If
.I dir\^
is
.SM NULL
or points to a string which is not a pathname
for an appropriate directory, the pathname defined as
.I P_tmpdir\^
in the
.B <stdio.h>\^
header file is used.
If that pathname is not accessible,
.B /tmp
will be used as a last resort.
This entire sequence can be upstaged by
providing an environment variable
.SM
.B TMPDIR
in the user's environment, whose value is a pathname for the
desired temporary-file directory.
.P
Many applications prefer that names of temporary files contain
favorite initial letter sequences.
Use the
.I pfx\^
argument for this.  This argument may be
.SM NULL
or point to a string
of up to 5 characters to be used as the first few characters of the
name of the temporary file.
.P
.I Tempnam\^
uses
.IR malloc (3C)
to get space for the constructed filename
and returns a pointer to this area.
Thus, any pointer value returned from
.I tempnam\^
may serve as an argument to
.I free\^
(see
.IR malloc (3C)).
If
.I tempnam\^
cannot return the expected result for any reason (i.e.,
.I malloc\^
failed or attempts to find
an appropriate directory were unsuccessful), a
.SM NULL
pointer will be returned.
.SH NOTES
These functions generate a different filename each time they are called.
.P
Files created using these functions and either
.IR fopen (2)
or
.IR creat (2)
are temporary only in the sense that they reside in a directory
intended for temporary use and their names are unique.
It is the user's responsibility to use
.IR unlink (2)
to remove the file when its use is ended.
.SH SEE ALSO
creat(2), unlink(2),
fopen(3S), malloc(3C), mktemp(3C), tmpfile(3S).
.SH BUGS
If called more than 17,576 times in a single process,
\fItmpnam\fP and \fItempnam\fP will start recycling
previously used names.
.br
Between the time a filename is created and the file is opened, it
is possible for some other process to create a file with the same name.
This can never happen if that other process is using
\fItmpnam\fP, \fItempnam\fP, or
.IR mktemp (3C)
and the filenames are chosen carefully to avoid duplication by other
means.
.\"	@(#)tmpnam.3s	1.5	
