.TH TRIG 3M 
.SH NAME
sin, cos, tan, asin, acos, atan, atan2 \- trigonometric functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.BR "double sin (" x )
.br
.BR "double" " x" ;
.PP
.BR "double cos (" x )
.br
.BR double " x" ;
.PP
.BR "double tan (" x )
.br
.BR double " x" ;
.PP
.BR "double asin (" x )
.br
.BR double " x" ;
.PP
.BR "double acos (" x )
.br
.BR double " x" ;
.PP
.BR "double atan (" x )
.br
.BR "double" " x" ;
.PP
.BR "double atan2 (" "y, x" )
.br
.BR double " x, y" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Sin ,
.IR cos ,
and
.I tan\^
return, respectively, the sine, cosine, and tangent of
their argument, which is in radians.
.PP
.I Asin\^
returns the arcsine of
.IR x ,
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
.I Acos\^
returns the arccosine of
.IR x ,
in the range 0 to \(*p.
.PP
.I Atan\^
returns the arctangent of
.IR x ,
in the range \-\(*p/2 to \(*p/2.
.PP
.I Atan2\^
returns the arctangent of
.IR y / x ,
in the range \-\(*p to \(*p,
using the signs of both arguments
to determine the quadrant of the return value.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IR Sin ,
.IR cos ,
and
.I tan\^
lose accuracy when their argument is far from zero.
For arguments sufficiently large,
these functions return 0 when there would
otherwise be a complete loss of significance.
In this case a message indicating TLOSS error is printed
on the standard error output.
For less extreme arguments,
a PLOSS error is generated but no message is printed.
In both cases,
.I errno\^
is set to
.SM
.BR ERANGE .
.PP
.I Tan\^
returns
.SM
.B HUGE
for an argument which is near an odd multiple of \(*p/2
when the correct value would overflow; it sets
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.BR ERANGE .
.PP
Arguments of magnitude greater than 1.0 cause
.I asin\^
and
.I acos\^
to return 0
and to set
.I errno\^
to
.SM
.BR EDOM .
In addition, a message indicating DOMAIN error is
printed on the standard error output.
.PP
These error-handling procedures may be changed with the function
.IR matherr (3M).
.SH SEE ALSO
matherr(3M).
.\"	@(#)trig.3m	1.4	
