.TH CRASH 1M
.SH NAME
crash \- examine system images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/crash
[ system ] [ namelist ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Crash\^
is an interactive utility for examining
an operating system core image.
It has facilities for interpreting
and formatting the various control structures
in the system and certain miscellaneous
functions that are useful when perusing a dump.
.PP
The arguments to
.I crash\^
are the file name where the
.I system
image
can be found and
a
.I namelist
file to be used
for symbol values.
.PP
The default values are
.BR /dev/mem
and
.BR /unix ;
hence,
.I crash\^
with no arguments can be used to examine
an active system.
If a
.I system
image file is given,
it is assumed to be a system core dump and
the default process is set to be that of the
process running at the time
of the crash.
This is determined by a value
stored in a fixed location
by the dump mechanism.
.SH COMMANDS
Input to
.I crash\^
is typically of the form:
.sp
.ti 5
\fIcommand \fR[ \fIoptions \fR] [ \fIstructures to be printed \fR]
.sp
When allowed,
.I options
modifies the format of the printout.
If no specific structure elements are specified,
all valid entries are used.
As an example,
.B "proc \- 12 15 3"
would print process table slots
12, 15 and 3 in a long format,
while
.B proc
would print the entire process table
in standard format.
.PP
In general, those commands that perform
\s-1I\s+1/\s-1O\s+1
with addresses assume
hexadecimal on 32-bit
machines and octal on 16-bit machines.
.PP
The current list of commands includes:
.TP
.BR "user " "[ list of process table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR uarea ,
.BR u_area ,
.BR u .
.br
Print the user structure of the named process
as determined by the information contained in the process table entry.
If no entry number is given, the information of the last executing   
process is printed.
Swapped processes produce an error message.
.TP
.BR "trace " [ \-r "] [ list of process table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR t .
.br
Generate a kernel stack trace of the current process.
If the
.B \-r
option is used,
the trace begins at the saved stack frame pointer in
.BR kfp .
Otherwise the trace starts at the bottom of the stack
and attempts to find valid stack frames deeper in
the stack.
If no entry number is given, the information on the last executing
process is printed.
.TP
.BR "kfp " "[ stack frame pointer ]"  
Aliases:
.BR fp .
.br
Print the program's idea of the start
of the current stack frame (set initially
from a fixed location in the dump)
if no argument is given,
or set the frame pointer to the supplied value.
.TP
.BR "stack " "[ list of process table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR stk ,
.BR s ,
.BR kernel ,
.BR k .
.br
Format a dump of the kernel stack of a process.
The addresses shown are virtual system data addresses
rather than true physical locations.
If no entry number is given, the information on the last executing
process is printed.
.TP
.BR "proc " [ \- [ r "] ]  [ list of process table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR ps ,
.BR p .
.br
Format the process table.
The
.B \-r
option causes only runnable processes to be printed.
The
.B \-
alone generates a longer listing.
.TP
.BR "inode " [ \- "] [ list of inode table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR ino ,
.BR i .
.br
Format the inode table.
The
.B \-
option also prints
the inode data block addresses.
.TP
.BR "file " "[ list of file table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR files ,
.BR f .
.br
Format the file table.
.TP
.BR "mount " "[ list of mount table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR mnt ,
.BR m .
.br
Format the mount table.
.ne 4
.TP
.BR "text " "[ list of text table entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR txt ,
.BR x .
.br
Format the text table.
.TP
.BR "tty " [ type "] [" \- "] [ list of tty entries ]"
Aliases:
.BR term ,
.BR acia .
.br
Print the tty structures.
The
.I type\^
argument determines which structure is used (such as
.BR acia ;
the last
.I type\^
is remembered).
The
.B \-
option prints the
.IR stty (1)
parameters for the given line.
.TP
.B stat
Print certain statistics found in the dump.
These include the
panic string (if a panic occurred), time of crash, system name,
and the registers saved in low memory
by the dump mechanism.
.TP
.B var
Aliases:
.BR tunables ,
.BR tunable ,
.BR tune ,
.BR v .
.br
Print the tunable system parameters.
.TP
.BR "buf " "[ list of buffer headers ]"
Aliases:
.BR hdr ,
.BR bufhdr .
.br
Format the system buffer headers.
.TP
.BR "buffer " "[ format ] [ list of buffers ]"
Alias:
.BR b .
.br
Print the data in a system buffer
according to
.IR format .
If
.I format
is omitted, the previous
.I format
is used.
Valid formats include
.BR decimal ,
.BR octal ,
.BR hex ,
.BR character ,
.BR byte ,
.BR directory ,
.BR inode ,
and
.BR write .
The last creates a file
in the current directory (see
"FILES")
containing the buffer data.
.TP
.B callout
Aliases:
.BR calls ,
.BR call ,
.BR c ,
.BR timeout ,
.BR time ,
.BR tout .
.br
Print all entries in the callout table.
.TP
.BR "map " "[ list of map names ]"
Format the named system map structures.
.TP
.BR "nm " "[ list of symbols ]"
Print symbol value and type as found in the
.I namelist
file.
.TP
.BR "ts " "[ list of text addresses ]"
Find the closest text symbols to the given addresses.
.TP
.BR "ds " "[ list of data addresses ]"
Find the closest data symbols to the given addresses.
.TP
.BR "od " "[ symbol name or address ] [ count ] [ format ]"
Aliases:
.BR dump ,
.BR rd .
.br
Dump
.I count\^
data values
starting at the symbol value or address given
according to
.IR format .
Allowable formats are
.BR octal ,
.BR longoct ,
.BR decimal ,
.BR longdec ,
.BR character ,
.BR hex ,
or
.BR byte .
.TP
.B !
Escape to shell.
.TP
.B q
Exit from
.IR crash .
.TP
.B ?
Print synopsis of commands.
.SH ALIASES
There are built in aliases for many of the
.I formats
as well as those listed for the commands.
Some of them are:
.PD 0
.RS
.TP \w'hexadecimal\ \ 'u
byte
b.
.TP
character
char, c.
.TP
decimal
dec, e.
.TP
directory
direct, dir, d.
.TP
hexadecimal
hexadec, hex, h, x.
.TP
inode
ino ,
i.
.TP
longdec
ld, \s-1D\s+1.
.TP
longoct
lo, \s-1O\s+1.
.TP
octal
oct, o.
.TP
write
w.
.RE
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/include/sys/\(**.h\ \ 'u
/usr/include/sys/\(**.h
header files for table and structure info
.TP
/dev/mem
default system image file
.TP
/unix
default namelist file
.TP
buf.#
files created containing buffer data
.DT
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(1M),
nm(1),
ps(1),
sh(1),
stty(1),
crash(8).
.SH BUGS
Most flags are abbreviated and have little meaning
to the uninitiated user. A source listing of the system
header files at hand would be most useful while using
.I crash.
.PP
Stack tracing of the current process on a
running system doesn't work.
.\"	@(#)crash.1m	1.6	
