.tr ~ 
.TH FF 1M  
.SH NAME
f\&f \- list filenames and statistics for a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/f\&f
[options] special 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ff\^
reads the ilist and directories of the 
.I special\^ 
file, assuming it to be a file system,
saving inode data for files which match the selection criteria.
Output consists of the pathname for each saved inode, plus 
any other file information requested
using the print options below.
Output fields are positional.
The output is produced in inode order; fields are separated by tabs.
The default line produced by
.I f\&f
is:
.P
.RS
.I "pathname \|i-number"
.RE
.P
With all options enabled, output
fields would be:
.P
.RS
.I "pathname \|i-number \|size \|uid"
.RE
.PP
The argument
.I n
in the option descriptions that follow is used 
as a decimal integer (optionally signed), where
.BI + n\^
means more than
.IR n ,
.BI \- n\^
means less than
.IR n ,
and 
.I n\^
means exactly
.IR n \.
A day is defined as a 24 hour period.
.TP 15
.B \-I
Do not print the inode number after each pathname.
.TP
.B \-l
Generate a supplementary list of all pathnames for multiple linked
files.
.TP
.BI \-p ~prefix\^
The specified
.I prefix\^
is added to each generated pathname.
The default is
.BR \&. . 
.TP
.B \-s
Print the file size, in bytes, after each pathname.
.TP
.B \-u
Print the owner's login name after each pathname.
.TP
.BI \-a ~n
Select if the inode has been accessed in
.I n\^
days.
.TP
.BI \-m ~n\^
Select if the inode has been modified in
.I n\^
days.
.TP
.BI \-c ~n\^
Select if the inode has been changed in 
.I n\^
days.
.TP
.BI \-n ~file\^
Select if the inode has been modified more recently than the argument
.IR file .
.TP
.BI \-i "~inode-list"
Generate names for only those inodes specified in
.IR "inode-list" .
.SH EXAMPLES
To generate a list of the names of all files on a specified file system:
.RS
.B "f\&f \|\-I \|/dev/diskroot"
.RE
.P
To produce an index of files and i-numbers which are on a
file system and have been modified in the last 24 hours:
.RS
.B "f\&f \|\-m \|\-1 \|/dev/diskusr \|> \|/log/incbackup/usr/tuesday"
.RE
.P
To obtain the pathnames for inodes 451 and 76 on 
a specified file system:
.RS
.B "f\&f \|\-i \|451,76 \|/dev/rdk10"
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
finc(1M), find(1), frec(1M), ncheck(1M).
.SH BUGS
Only a single pathname is generated for a multiple
linked inode, unless the
.B \-l
option is specified.
When
.B \-l
is specified, no selection criteria applies to the names generated;
all possible names for every linked file on the file system are included
in the output.
.P
On very large file systems, memory may run out before
.I f\&f
does.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)ff.1m	1.7	
