.TH UUCLEAN 1M
.SH NAME
uuclean \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uuclean
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuclean\^
scans the spool directory for files with the
specified prefix and deletes all those which are
older than the specified number of hours.
.PP
The following options are available.
.TP \w'\fB\-d\fIdirectory\ \ 'u
.TP
.BI \-d directory\^
Cleans
.I directory\^
instead of the spool directory.
.TP
.BI \-p pre\^
Scans for files with
.I pre\^
as the file prefix.
Up to 10
.B \-p
arguments may be specified.
A
.B \-p
without any
.I pre\^
following causes all files older than the
specified time to be deleted.
.TP
.BI \-n time\^
Deletes files whose age is more than
.I time\^
hours, if the prefix
test is satisfied.
(default time is 72 hours)
.TP
.BI \-w file\^
Finds files which
are older than
.I time\^
hours; however, the files are not deleted.
If the argument
.I file\^
is present, the warning is placed in
.IR file ;
otherwise, the warnings go to the standard output.
.TP
.BI \-s sys\^
Examines only files destined for system
.IR sys\^ .
Up to 10
.B \-s
arguments may be specified.
.TP
.BI \-m file\^
Sends mail to the owner of the file
when it is deleted.
If a 
.I file
is specified, then an entry is placed 
in
.I file.
.PP
This program is typically started by
.IR cron (1M).
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/uucp    (directory with commands used by \fIuuclean\fR
                    internally)
.sp
/usr/spool/uucp  (spool directory)
.SH SEE ALSO
cron(1M), uucp(1C), uux(1C).
.\"	@(#)uuclean.1m	1.5	
