.TH MOUNT 2 
.SH NAME
mount \- mount a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "int mount (" "spec, dir, rwflag" )
.br
.BR "char \(**" "spec," " \(**" "dir" ;
.br
.BR "int" " rwflag" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mount\^
requests that a removable file system contained on the
block special file identified by
.I spec\^
be mounted on the directory identified by
.IR dir .
.I Spec\^
and
.I dir\^
are pointers to
pathnames.
.PP
Upon successful completion, references to the file
.I dir\^
refer to the root directory on the mounted file system.
.PP
The low-order bit of
.I rwflag\^
is used to control write permission on the mounted file system.
If the low-order bit is
.BR 1 ,
writing is forbidden;
otherwise writing is permitted according to individual file accessibility.
.PP
.I Mount\^
may be invoked only by the superuser.
.PP
.I Mount\^
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.IP
The effective user
.SM ID
is not superuser.
.SM
\%[EPERM]
.IP
Any of the named files does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
A component of a
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
.I Spec\^
is not a block special device.
.SM
\%[ENOTBLK]
.IP
The device associated with
.I spec\^
does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENXIO]
.IP
.I Dir\^
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
.I Spec\^
or
.I dir\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.IP
.I Dir\^
is currently mounted on, is someone's current working directory,
or is otherwise busy.
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
.IP
The device associated with
.I spec\^
is currently mounted.
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
umount(2).
.\"	@(#)mount.2	1.4	
