.TH OPEN 2 
.SH NAME
open \- open for reading or writing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.br
.BR "int open (" "path, oflag," " [" "mode" "] )"
.br
.BR "char \(**" "path" ;
.br
.BR int " oflag, mode" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Path\^
points to a
pathname
naming a file.
.I Open\^
opens a file descriptor for the named file
and sets the file status flags
according to the value of
.IR oflag .
.I Oflag\^
values are constructed by or-ing flags
from the following list (only one of the first three flags below
may be used):
.PP
.TP .88i
.SM
.B O\(ruRDONLY
Open for reading only.
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruWRONLY
Open for writing only.
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruRDWR
Open for reading and writing.
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruNDELAY
This flag may affect subsequent reads and writes.
See
.IR read (2)
and
.IR write (2).
.IP
When opening a
.SM FIFO
with
.SM O\(ruRDONLY
or
.SM O\(ruWRONLY
set:
.IP
If
.SM O\\(ruNDELAY
is set:
.RS
.IP
An
.I open\^
for reading-only returns without delay.
An
.I open\^
for writing-only returns an error if no process
currently has the file open for reading.
.RE
.IP
If
.SM O\(ruNDELAY
is clear:
.RS
.IP
An
.I open\^
for reading-only blocks until a process
opens the file for writing.
An
.I open\^
for writing-only blocks until a process
opens the file for reading.
.RE
.IP
When opening a file associated with a communication line:
.IP
If
.SM O\(ruNDELAY
is set:
.RS
.IP
The \fIopen\fP returns without waiting for carrier.
.RE
.IP
If
.SM O\(ruNDELAY
is clear:
.RS
.IP
The \fIopen\fP blocks until carrier is present.
.RE
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruAPPEND
If set, the file pointer is set to the end of the file
prior to each write.
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruCREAT
If the file exists, this flag has no effect.
Otherwise,
the file's owner
.SM ID
is set to the process's effective
user
.SM ID\*S,
the file's group
.SM ID
is set to the process's effective group
.SM ID\*S,
and
the low-order 12 bits of the file mode are set to the value of
.I mode\^
modified as follows (see
.IR creat (2)):
.RS
.IP
All bits set in the process's file mode creation mask are cleared.
See
.IR umask (2).
.IP
Mode bit 01000 (save text image after execution) is cleared.
See
.IR chmod (2).
.RE
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruTRUNC
If the file exists, its length is truncated to 0 and the mode and owner
are unchanged.
.TP
.SM
.B O\(ruEXCL
If
.SM O\(ruEXCL
and
.SM O\(ruCREAT
are set,
.I open\^
fails if the file exists.
.PP
Upon successful completion a non-negative integer, the
file descriptor,
is returned.
.PP
The file pointer used to mark the current position within the file
is set to the beginning of the file.
.PP
The new file descriptor is set to remain open across
.I exec\^
system calls.
See
.IR fcntl (2).
.PP
No process may have more than
20
file descriptors open simultaneously.
.PP
The named file is opened unless one or more of the following are true:
.IP
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
.IP
.SM O\(ruCREAT
is not set and the named file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
.IP
A component of the
path prefix
denies search permission.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
.I Oflag\^
permission is denied for the named file.
.SM
\%[EACCES]
.IP
The named file is a directory and
.I oflag\^
is write or
read/write.
.SM
\%[EISDIR]
.IP
The named file resides on a read-only file system and
.I oflag\^
is write or read/write.
.SM
\%[EROFS]
.IP
20
file descriptors are currently open.
.SM
\%[EMFILE]
.IP
The named file is a character special or block special file,
and the device associated with this special file does not exist.
.SM
\%[ENXIO]
.IP
The file is a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being executed and
.I oflag\^
is write or read/write.
.SM
\%[ETXTBSY]
.IP
.I Path\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.IP
.SM O\(ruCREAT
and
.SM O\(ruEXCL
are set
and the named file exists.
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
.IP
.SM O\(ruNDELAY
is set, the named file is a
.SM FIFO\*S,
.SM O\(ruWRONLY
is set, and no process has the file open for reading.
.SM
\%[ENXIO]
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
a non-negative integer
(i.e., a file descriptor)
is returned;
otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.PP
Refer to \fIfcntl\fR(5) for a list of the flag values 
contained in \fB<fcntl.h>\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
close(2), creat(2), dup(2), fcntl(2), lseek(2), read(2), write(2),
fcntl(5).
.\"	@(#)open.2	1.8	
