.TH WRITE 2 
.SH NAME
write \- write on a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "int write (" "fildes, buf, nbyte" )
.br
.BR int " fildes" ;
.br
.BR "char \(**" buf ;
.br
.BR unsigned " nbyte" ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fildes\^
is a
file descriptor
obtained from a
.IR creat (2),
.IR open (2),
.IR dup (2),
.IR fcntl (2),
or
.IR pipe (2)
system call.
.PP
.I Write\^
attempts to write
.I nbyte\^
bytes from the buffer pointed to by
.I buf\^
to the file associated with the
.IR fildes .
.PP
On devices capable of seeking,
the actual writing of data proceeds from the position in the file
indicated by the file pointer.
Upon return from 
.IR write ,
the file pointer is incremented by the number of bytes actually written.
.PP
On devices incapable of seeking,
writing always takes place starting at the current position.
The value of a file pointer associated with such a device is
undefined.
.PP
If the
.SM O_APPEND
file status flag is set,
the file pointer is set to the end of the file prior to each write.
.PP
.I Write\^
fails and the file pointer remains unchanged if one or more of the
following are true:
.IP
.I Fildes\^
is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.
.SM
\%[EBADF]
.IP
An attempt is made to write to a pipe that is not open
for reading by any process.
.SM
\%[EPIPE
and
.SM
SIGPIPE
signal]
.IP
An attempt is made to write a file that exceeds the
process's file size limit or the maximum file size.
See 
.IR ulimit (2).
.SM
\%[EFBIG]
.IP
.I Buf\^
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.PP
If a
.I write\^
requests that more bytes be written than there is room for
(e.g., the
.I ulimit\^
(see
.IR ulimit (2))
or the physical end of a medium),
only as many bytes as there is room for are written.
For example,
if there is space for 20 bytes more in a file before
reaching a limit,
a write of 512  bytes returns 20.
The next write of a non-zero number of bytes gives a failure return
(except as noted below).
.PP
If the file being written is a pipe (or
.SM FIFO\*S),
no partial writes are permitted.
Thus, the write fails if a write of
.I nbyte\^
bytes would exceed a limit.
.PP
If the file being written is a pipe (or
.SM FIFO\*S)
and the
.SM O_NDELAY
flag of the file flag word is set,
then write to a full pipe (or
.SM FIFO\*S)
returns a count of 0.
If
.SM O_NDELAY
is clear, writes to a full pipe (or
.SM FIFO\*S)
block until space becomes available.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion the number of bytes actually written
is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
creat(2), dup(2), lseek(2), open(2), pipe(2), ulimit(2).
.\"	@(#)write.2	1.4	
