.TH GETTYDEFS 4
.SH NAME
gettydefs \- speed and terminal settings used by getty
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B /etc/gettydefs
file contains information used by
.IR getty (1M)
to set up the speed and terminal settings for a line.
It supplies information on what the
.I login
prompt should look like.
It also supplies
the speed to try next if
the user indicates the current speed is not correct by
typing a
.I <break>
character.
.PP
Each entry in
.B /etc/gettydefs
has the following format:
.PP
label# initial-flags # final-flags # login-prompt #next-label
.PP
Each entry is followed by a blank line.
Lines that begin with
.B #
are ignored and may be used to comment the file.
The format fields can contain quoted characters of the form
.BR \eb ,
.BR \en ,
.BR \ec ,
etc., as well as
.BI \e nnn\fR,\fP
where
.I nnn
is the
octal value of the desired character.  The fields are:
.TP \w'login-prompt\ \ \ 'u
.I label
This is the string against which
.IR getty (1M)
tries to match its second argument.
It is often the speed at which the terminal
is supposed to run, e.g., 1200, but it needn't be.
If
.IR getty (1M)
is called without a second argument, then the first entry of
.B /etc/gettydefs
is used, thus making the first entry of
.B /etc/gettydefs
the default entry.  The first entry is also used if
.IR getty (1M)
can't find the specified
.IR label .
If
.B /etc/gettydefs
itself is missing, there is one entry built into
the command which will bring up a terminal at \fB300\fP baud.
.TP
.I initial-flags
These flags are the initial
.IR ioctl (2)
settings to which the terminal is to be set if
a terminal type is not specified to
.IR getty (1M).
.IR Getty (1M)
understands the symbolic names specified in
.B /usr/include/sys/termio.h
(see
.IR termio (7).
Normally only the speed flag is required in the
.IR initial-flags " field."
.IR Getty (1M)
automatically sets the terminal to raw input mode and
takes care of most of the other flags.
The \fIinitial-flag\fP settings remain in effect until
.IR getty (1M)
executes
.IR login (1).
.TP
.I final-flags
These flags take the same values as the
.I initial-flags
and are set just before
.IR getty (1M)
executes
.IR login (1).
The speed flag is again required.  The composite
flag
.SM
.B SANE
takes care of most of the other flags that need to be
set so that the processor and terminal communicate
in a rational fashion.  The other two commonly specified
.I final-flags
are
.SM
.B TAB3\*S
(tabs are sent to the terminal as spaces) and
.SM
.B HUPCL\*S
(the line is hung up on the final close).
.TP
.I login-prompt
This entire field is printed as the \fIlogin-prompt\fP.
White-space characters (space, tab, and new-line) are
included in this field, unlike the other fields in which
white space is ignored.
.TP
.I next-label
This field indicates the next entry
.I label
in the table that
.IR getty (1M)
should use if the user types a
.I <break>
or the input cannot be read.
Usually, a series of speeds are linked together in
a closed set.
No matter where the set is entered, the correct speed can
be obtained.
For example, \fB2400\fP is linked to \fB1200\fP, which in turn is
linked to \fB300\fP, which finally is linked to \fB2400\fP.
.PP
After making or modifying
.BR /etc/gettydefs ,
it is strongly recommended that the file
be run through
.IR getty (1M)
with the check option to be sure there are no errors.
.SH FILES
/etc/gettydefs
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getty(1M),
termio(7),
login(1),
ioctl(2).
.\"	@(#)gettydefs.4	1.4	
