.TH MASTER 4
.SH NAME
master \- master device information table
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is used by the
.IR config (1M)
program to obtain device information that enables
it to generate the
configuration
files.
The file consists of 3 or 4 parts, each separated by a line with
a dollar sign
.RB ( $ )
in column 1.
Part 1 contains device information; part 2 contains
names
of devices that have aliases;
part 3 contains tunable parameter information.
Part 4 is optional and contains information related to configuring
the \s-1M68000\s+1 family systems only.
Any line with an asterisk
.RB ( \(** )
in column 1 is treated as a comment.
.PP
Part 1 contains lines consisting of at least 10 fields
and at most 13 fields.
The fields are delimited by tabs and/or blanks.
.PP
.TS
l l.
Field 1: 	device name (8 chars. maximum).
.sp
Field 2: 	interrupt vector size (decimal, in bytes).
.sp
Field 3: 	T{
.nf
device mask (octal)\-each ``on'' bit
indicates that the handler exists:
\^\^\^000100  initialization handler
\^\^\^000040  power-failure handler
\^\^\^000020  open handler
\^\^\^000010  close handler
\^\^\^000004  read handler
\^\^\^000002  write handler
\^\^\^000001  ioctl handler
.fi
T}
.sp
Field 4: 	T{
.nf
device type indicator (octal):
\^\^\^000200  allow only one of these devices
\^\^\^000100  suppress count field in the \f3conf.c\f1 file
\^\^\^000040  suppress interrupt vector
\^\^\^000020  required device
\^\^\^000010  block device
\^\^\^000004  character device
\^\^\^000002  interrupt driven device other than block or char. device
.fi
T}
.sp
Field 5: 	handler prefix (4 chars. maximum).
.sp
Field 6: 	device address size (decimal).
.sp
Field 7: 	major device number for block-type device.
.sp
Field 8: 	T{
.nf
major device number for
character-type device.
.fi
T}
.sp
Field 9: 	T{
.nf
maximum number of devices per
controller (decimal).
.fi
T}
.sp
Field 10: 	maximum bus request level (1 through 7).
.sp
Fields 11-13: 	T{
.nf
optional configuration table structure declarations (8 chars. maximum)
.fi
T}
.TE
.PP
Part 2 contains lines with 2 fields each:
.PP
.TS
l l.
Field 1: 	alias name of device (8 chars. maximum).
.sp
Field 2: 	T{
.nf
reference name of device (8 chars. maximum; specified in part 1).
.fi
T}
.TE
.PP
Part 3 contains lines with 2 or 3 fields each:
.PP
.TS
l l.
Field 1: 	T{
.nf
parameter name (as it appears in description file; 30 chars. maximum)
.fi
T}
.sp
Field 2: 	T{
.nf
parameter name (as it appears in the \f3conf.c\f1 file; 30 chars. maximum)
.fi
T}
.sp
Field 3: 	T{
.nf
default parameter value (30 chars. maximum; parameter specification 
is required if this field is omitted)
.fi
T}
.TE
.PP
Part 4 contains M68000-specific lines exactly like those for
the M68000-specific portion of the \fBdfile\fP.  See \fIconfig\fP
(1M) for a description of these lines.
.PP
Devices that are not interrupt-driven
have an interrupt vector size of zero.
The 040 bit in Field 4 causes
.IR config (1M)
to record the interrupt vectors although the
.B m68kvec.s
file will show no interrupt vector assignment at those
locations (interrupts here will be treated as strays).
.SH SEE ALSO
config(1M).
.\"	@(#)master.dec.4	1.6	
