.TH RELOC 4
.SH NAME
reloc \- relocation information for a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
#include  <reloc.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Object files have one relocation entry for each
relocatable reference in the text or data.
If relocation information is present, it will
be in the following format.
.PP
.if t .RS
.ta \w'#define\ \ 'u +\w'R_DIR32S\ \ 'u +\w'r_symndx\ ;\ \ 'u
.nf
.lg 0
struct	reloc
{
	long	r_vaddr ;	/\(** (virtual) address of reference \(*\(**/
	long	r_symndx ;	/\(** index into symbol table \(*\(**/
	short	r_type ;	/\(** relocation type \(*\(**/
} ;

.if '\*p'b16' \{\
#define	R_ABS	0
#define	R_DIR16	01
#define	R_REL16	02
#define	R_IND16	03
\}
.if '\*p'x86' \{\
#define	R_ABS	0
#define	R_DIR16	01
#define	R_REL16	02
#define	R_IND16	03
#define	R_OFF8	07
#define	R_OFF16	010
#define	R_SEG12	011
#define	R_AUX	013
\}
.if '\*p'3b' \{\
#define	R_ABS	0
#define	R_DIR24	04
#define	R_REL24	05
#define	R_DIR32	06
#define	R_OPT16	014
#define	R_IND24	015
#define	R_IND32	016
\}
.if '\*p'm32' \{\
#define	R_ABS	0
#define	R_DIR32	06
#define	R_DIR32S	012
\}
.if '\*p'' \{\

/\(**
 * All generics
 *	reloc. already performed to symbol in the same section
 \(**/
#define  R_ABS		0

/\(**
 * DEC Processors  VAX 11/780 and VAX 11/750
 * 
 \(**/
#define R_RELBYTE	017
#define R_RELWORD	020
#define R_RELLONG	021
#define R_PCRBYTE	022
#define R_PCRWORD	023
#define R_PCRLONG	024

/\(**
 * Motorola 68000 uses R_RELBYTE, R_RELWORD, R_RELLONG,
 * R_PCRBYTE, and R_PCRWORD as for DEC machines above.
 \(**/
\}
.fi
.lg
.if t .RE
.PP
As the link editor reads each input section
and performs relocation, the relocation entries are read. They
direct how references found within the input section are treated.
.TP 15
R_ABS
The reference is absolute, and no relocation is necessary.
The entry will be ignored.
.TP 15
R_RELBYTE
A direct 8-bit reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.TP 15
R_RELWORD
A direct 16-bit reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.TP 15
R_RELLONG
A direct 32-bit reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.TP 15
R_PCRBYTE
A ``PC-relative'' 8-bit reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.TP 15
R_PCRWORD
A ``PC-relative'' 16-bit reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.TP 15
R_PCRLONG
A ``PC-relative'' 32-bit reference to a symbol's virtual address.
.PP
On the
.SM VAX
processors, relocation of a symbol index of -1 indicates that
the relative difference between the current segment's start address and
the program's load address is added to the relocatable address.
\}
.PP
Other relocation types will be defined as they are needed.
.PP
Relocation entries are generated automatically by the
assembler and automatically utilized by the link editor. A link editor
option exists for removing the relocation entries from an object
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*pld(1), \*pstrip(1), \*pa.out(4), syms(4).
'\" \%W\%
.\"	@(#)reloc.4	1.4	
