.\"	@(#)cm80.7	1.3	
'\" t
.TH CM80 7
.SH NAME
cm80 \- 80Mb Cartridge Module Drive
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.BR dk00 ", " ... ", " dk07
refer to sections of the
CM80 disk drive 0.
The files
.BR dk10 ", " ... ", " dk17
refer to drive 1, etc.
This slicing allows the pack
to be broken up
into more manageable pieces.
.PP
The origin and size of the sections on each drive are
as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI cI cI
c n n.
section	start	length
0	0	26336
1	26336	105344
2	52672	79008
3	79008	52672
4	92176	39504
5	105344	26336
6	118512	13168
7	0	131680
.TE
.RE
.PP
The start address is a block address,
with each block containing 512 bytes.
It is extremely unwise for all of these files to be present in one installation,
since there is overlap in addresses and protection becomes
a sticky matter.
.PP
The
.B dk
files
access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism
and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a ``raw'' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly
one
I/O
operation
and therefore raw
I/O
is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw
.SM DK
files
begin with
.B rdk
and end with a number which selects the same disk
section as the corresponding
.B dk
file.
.PP
In raw
I/O
the buffer must begin on a word boundary,
and counts must be a multiple of 512 bytes
(a disk block).
Likewise
.IR lseek (2)\^
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/dk\(**, /dev/rdk\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
ud(7), dk(7), cm16(7), lrk25(7), fl8(7).
.\"	@(#)cm80.7	1.2	UNIX System V/68
