.\"	@(#)fl8.7	1.4	
'\" t
.TH FL8 7
.SH NAME
fl8 \- 8 inch Floppy Disk Drive
.SH DESCRIPTION
Although it is possible to have 8 devices for each floppy
disk drive, only two devices per floppy disk drive are
currently defined: 
.BI dk x "0"
and
.BI dk x "1"
.PP
.BI Dk x "0"
is defined for single-sided drives or single-sided
disks in double-sided drives.
.BI Dk x "1"
is defined for
double-sided disks in double-sided drives.
.PP
The origin and size of the sections on each drive are
as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI cI cI
c n n.
section	start	length
0	0	500
1	0	1000
2	-	-
3	-	-
4	-	-
5	-	-
6	-	-
7	-	-
.TE
.RE
.PP
The start address is a block address with each block containing 512
bytes.  It is extremely unwise for all of these files to be present
in one installation, since there is overlap in addresses and
protection becomes a problem.
.PP
The
.B dk
files
access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism
and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a ``raw'' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly
one
I/O
operation
and therefore raw
I/O
is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw
.SM DK
files
begin with
.B rdk
and end with a number which selects the same disk
section as the corresponding
.B dk
file.
.PP
In raw
I/O
the buffer must begin on a word boundary,
and counts must be a multiple of 512 bytes
(a disk block).
Likewise
.IR lseek (2)\^
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/dk\(**, /dev/rdk\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
ud(7), dk(7), cm16(7), cm80(7), lrk25(7).
.\"	@(#)fl8.7	1.2	UNIX System V/68
