.if t .ds ' \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\'\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ' '
.if t .ds ` \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\`\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ` `
.TH LP 7 
.SH NAME
lp, lpc \- line printer
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lp\^
provides the interface to any of the standard
Printronix-type line printers;
.I lpc
provides interface to standard Centronics
line printers.
When opened or closed, a suitable number
of page ejects is generated.
Bytes written are printed.
.PP
An internal parameter within the driver determines
whether or not the device is treated as having
a 96- or 64-character set.
In half-\s-1ASCII\s+1 mode, lower case letters are turned
into
upper case
and certain characters are escaped according to
the following table:
.PP
.RS
.TP
{
\o@(\-@
.TP
}
\o@)\-@
.TP
\(ga
.if n \o@\-\*'@
.if t \-\h@-1.5n@\*'
.TP
\(bv
\o@!\-@
.TP
~
\o@^\-@
.RE
.PP
The driver correctly interprets
carriage returns, backspaces, tabs, and form-feeds.
A new-line that extends over the end of
a page is turned into a form-feed.
The default line length is 132 characters,
indent is 4 characters and lines per page is 66.
Lines longer than the line length minus the
indent (i.e., 128 characters, using the above defaults)
are truncated.
.PP
Two
.IR ioctl (2)
system calls are available:
.PP
.RS
\fB#include\fI <sys/lprio.h>\fR
.br
\fBioctl\fI \|(fildes, \|command, \|arg)\fR
.br
\fBstruct \|lprio\fI \|\(**arg;\fR
.RE
.PP
The
.I commands
are:
.RS
.TP "\w'LPRGET\ \ 'u"
.SM LPRGET
Get the current indent, columns per line, and lines per page
and store in the
.I lprio\^
structure referenced by
.BR arg .
.TP
.SM LPRSET
Set the current indent, columns per line, and lines per page
from the structure referenced by
.BR arg .
.RE
.PP
Thus, indent, page width and page length can
be set with an external program.
.SH FILES
/dev/lp*
.SH SEE ALSO
lpr(1).
.\"	@(#)lp.7	1.6	
