.\"	@(#)lrk25.7	1.4	
'\" t
.TH LRK25 7
.SH NAME
lrk25 \- 25Mb LARK Module Drive
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.BR dk00 ", " ... ", " dk07
refer to sections of the
LRK25 disk drive 0.
The files
.BR dk10 ", " ... ", " dk17
refer to drive 1, etc.
This slicing allows the pack
to be broken up
into more manageable pieces.
.PP
The origin and size of the sections on each drive are
as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
cI cI cI
c n n.
section	start	length
0	0	39936
1	4992	34944
2	9984	29952
3	14976	24960
4	19968	19968
5	24960	14976
6	29952	9984
7	34944	4992
.TE
.RE
.PP
The start address is a block address,
with each block containing 512 bytes.
It is extremely unwise for all of these files to be present in one installation,
since there is overlap in addresses and protection becomes
a problem.
.PP
The
.B dk
files
access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism
and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a ``raw'' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly
one
I/O
operation
and therefore raw
I/O
is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw
.SM DK
files
begin with
.B rdk
and end with a number which selects the same disk
section as the corresponding
.B dk
file.
.PP
In raw
I/O
the buffer must begin on a word boundary,
and counts must be a multiple of 512 bytes
(a disk block).
Likewise
.IR lseek (2)\^
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/dk\(**, /dev/rdk\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
ud(7), dk(7), cm16(7), cm80(7), fl8(7).
.\"	@(#)lrk25.7	1.2	UNIX System V/68
